week1/lesson_plan.md, before:

# Lesson plan

This lesson plan is meant for a traditional class (vs. flipped classroom) where the mentor teaches the contents with breaks for exercises.
The material to be tought is the same as in the flipped classroom though.

 1. What is Git
    - git is a version control software, widely used by software developers (and not only)

 2. What is version control
    - show example with google docs
    - git does the same but for all files in a given folder/repository
    - show repository for vscode as an example of a software built using Git to manage all the code
    - also git allows you to have branches and work on multiple tasks at the same time, a bit like copying folders

 3. Install git/git bash

 4. Configure git
    - `git config --global user.name "name"`
    - `git config --global user.email "email"`
    - `git config --global core.editor "code -w"` (without `-w` the commit is aborted with empty message)

 5. Command line basics
    - `pwd`, and explain how paths work
    - `ls`
    - `cd`
    - `mkdir`
    - do a little exercise

 6. Git vs. github
    - slide 2

 7. What is a repository and how to create one
    - kind of a folder, but not all files in the folder have to be in the repository
    - slide 3

 8. The commit
    - slide 4

 9. How to save/commit changes in your repository
    - slide 5

 10. What is a commit (technical side)
     - slide 6

 11. Explain/show what happens after each git add and git commit
     - slides 7-16
     - also show a lot of git status and git log

 12. Explain/show what happens after git push
     - slide 17
     
 13. Do a little exercise where the students:
     - have them clone their own `hyf-homework` into their computer (this is to get everyone on the same page, otherwise it is a mess)
     - create a folder named `class_playground` under `hyf-homework/Git/week1`
     - add some files
     - commit the changes
     - push current changes

 14. Branches
     - go trough the homework workflow [have slides showing each step]:
         a) create a branch
         b) do commits
         c) push to github
         d) create pull request
         e) merge with master
         f) update local master
      - do an exercise where the students do parts a) to d)

Commit message:

Add class_exercises link to lesson plan, week1

week1/lesson_plan.md, after:

# Lesson plan

This lesson plan is meant for a traditional class (vs. flipped classroom) where the mentor teaches the contents with breaks for exercises.
The material to be taught is the same as in the flipped classroom though.
The exercises suggested for the flipped classroom can be found [here](./class_exercises.md).

 1. What is Git
    - git is a version control softwssssare, widely used by software developers (and not only)

 2. What is version control
    - show example with google docs
    - git does the same but for all files in a given folder/repository
    - show repository for vscode as an example of a software built using Git to manage all the code
    - also git allows you to have branches and work on multiple tasks at the same time, a bit like copying folders

 3. Install git/git bash

 4. Configure git
    - `git config --global user.name "name"`
    - `git config --global user.email "email"`
    - `git config --global core.editor "code -w"` (without `-w` the commit is aborted with empty message)

 5. Command line basics
    - `pwd`, and explain how paths work
    - `ls`
    - `cd`
    - `mkdir`
    - do a little exercise

 6. Git vs. github
    - slide 2

 7. What is a repository and how to create one
    - kind of a folder, but not all files in the folder have to be in the repository
    - slide 3

 8. The commit
    - slide 4

 9. How to save/commit changes in your repository
    - slide 5

 10. What is a commit (technical side)
     - slide 6

 11. Explain/show what happens after each git add and git commit
     - slides 7-16
     - also show a lot of git status and git log

 12. Explain/show what happens after git push
     - slide 17
     
 13. Do a little exercise where the students:
     - have them clone their own `hyf-homework` into their computer (this is to get everyone on the same page, otherwise it is a mess)
     - create a folder named `class_playground` under `hyf-homework/Git/week1`
     - add some files
     - commit the changes
     - push current changes

 14. Branches
     - go trough the homework workflow [have slides showing each step]:
         a) create a branch
         b) do commits
         c) push to github
         d) create pull request
         e) merge with master
         f) update local master
      - do an exercise where the students do parts a) to d)
