week1/preparation.md, before:

# Preparation

Readings:
 - What is version control: https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-version-control (5 min)
 - What is git: https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-git (6 min)

Github:
 - if you haven't created an account on [github.com](www.github.com) yet, please create it now :)

Git:
 - please install git before sunday:

  - for mac users: running `brew install git` on the command line should work;
  - for ubuntu people (or any debian based linux): run `sudo apt-get install git` on  the command line
  - for windows people: download the Git for Windows Setup in https://git-scm.com/download/win and install. Step by step instructions:
    1. execute the file you downloaded;
    2. on the `Information` screen, click next;
    3. on the `Select components` screen, click next without changing anything;
    4. `Choosing the default editor used by Git`, select `Use Vim` and click next;
    5. `Adjusting your path environment`, select `Use Git from Git Bash only` and click next;
    6. `Choosing HTTPS transport backend`, select `Use the OpenSSL library` and click next;
    7. `Configuring the line ending conversions`, select `Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style line endings` and click next;
    8. `Configuring the terminal emulator to use with Git Bash`, select `Use MinTTY` and click next;
    9.  `Configuring extra options`, select `Enable file system caching` and `Enable Git Credential manager`, click next;
    10. `Configuring experimental options`, do not select any of them, and click install;
    11. and you should be pretty much done :)


We'll be roughly following the materials here, in case you want to take a look:  https://github.com/HackYourFuture-CPH/Git/blob/master/week1/review.md

Commit message:

Add note to preparation.md that it is for presential classes, week1

week1/preparation.md, after:

# Preparation

This is the preparation for the "old style" presential classes (vs. flipped classroom).

Readings:
 - What is version control: https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-version-control (5 min)
 - What is git: https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-git (6 min)

Github:
 - if you haven't created an account on [github.com](www.github.com) yet, please create it now :)

Git:
 - please install git before sunday:

  - for mac users: running `brew install git` on the command line should work;
  - for ubuntu people (or any debian based linux): run `sudo apt-get install git` on  the command line
  - for windows people: download the Git for Windows Setup in https://git-scm.com/download/win and install. Step by step instructions:
    1. execute the file you downloaded;
    2. on the `Information` screen, click next;
    3. on the `Select components` screen, click next without changing anything;
    4. `Choosing the default editor used by Git`, select `Use Vim` and click next;
    5. `Adjusting your path environment`, select `Use Git from Git Bash only` and click next;
    6. `Choosing HTTPS transport backend`, select `Use the OpenSSL library` and click next;
    7. `Configuring the line ending conversions`, select `Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style line endings` and click next;
    8. `Configuring the terminal emulator to use with Git Bash`, select `Use MinTTY` and click next;
    9.  `Configuring extra options`, select `Enable file system caching` and `Enable Git Credential manager`, click next;
    10. `Configuring experimental options`, do not select any of them, and click install;
    11. and you should be pretty much done :)


We'll be roughly following the materials here, in case you want to take a look:  https://github.com/HackYourFuture-CPH/Git/blob/master/week1/review.md
